{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 1. Nobel Prizes Given for Theoretical vs. Empirical Research
\f1\b0 \
\
1. I answered the question of what type of research has earned scientists more prizes in each field. Without a doubt, theoretical research earns more prizes in all three fields.\
\
2. I needed to divide the dataset into the three fields, then separating each of those into theoretical or empirical research. I was then able to visualize these 6 categories, labeling each cluster with the range of years that are represented by these prizes. I had to calculate the \'93minimum\'94 and \'93maximum\'94 years with a sorting algorithm.\
\
3. I chose to display the attributes as clustered columns which can be transformed into 100% stacked columns. I want the viewer to be able to compare the two quantities in each field, but also be able to compare the fields to each other\'97which is achieved through scaling them to the same 100% maximum.\
\

\f0\b 2. Age at Highest Degree vs. Age at Nobel Prize
\f1\b0 \
\
1. I tried to find a correlation between the age at which a scientist earns their highest degree and when they are awarded a Nobel Prize. Most scientists earn their highest degree between the ages of 20 and 30. However, there is a wide range at which they are awarded their prizes.\
\
2. I had the scientists ages at their highest degrees, but I had to calculate their age when they received their prizes. I did this by subtracting their birth year from the year of their prizes.\
\
3. I color coded each circle based on the scientist\'92s field and plotted each point on a scatterplot. The x axis measures the ages at their award, and the Y axis measures their ages at highest degree. I wanted to show the density of each region of the graph to try and find correlations and trends.\
\

\f0\b 3. Years Nobel Prize Awarded After Mid-research Point\

\f1\b0 \
1. I wanted to find the minimum, average, and maximum number of years that it takes scientists to earn a Nobel Prize after their mid-research points. The initial graph shows the minimum, and on clicking it shows the average years, and if a user clicks again it shows the maximum number of years for each field. The averages are quite similar between all three fields.\
\
2. I had the years until mid-research point, but I had to sort each field to find its minimum and maximum, then calculate the average.\
\
3. I used a bar graph to show the relative length of time for each field, though I think that this was not the best choice for minimums and maximums. The bars appear to be averaged measures of time (which is true for the averages) but are a bit mis-leading as minimums and maximums. I color-coded each field as usual.\
\

\f0\b 4. Age at Nobel Prize by Gender\
\

\f1\b0 1. I wanted to compare the ages at which men and women are awarded Nobel Prizes throughout the years.\
\
2. I needed to manually input much of the data from more recent female prize winners and then to calculate the age at which they were awarded their prizes. I did this by subtracting their birth year from their award years, then using these years as coordinates.\
\
3. I color coded men as blue and women as pink, playing off of the widely-recognized gender color code for babies. I used a scatterplot to show the density of areas to find trends. Women are awarded Nobel Prizes at a wider range of ages then are men, but there are far more male winners.}